# Survival Aanalysis with Cancer Metabolism Data

#Predicting Patient Survival with Cancer Metabolism and Identifying Key Factors for Early Diagnosis.

According to the World Health Organization, 2.3 million women were diagnosed with breast cancer in 2020 while 685,000 deaths were recorded globally. As of ending of the year 2020, 7.8 million women alive were recorded to have been diagnosed with breast cancer in the past 5 years, making it the most prevalent kind of cancer in the world.

Survival analysis of cancer multi-omic data has enormous potential of facilitating a more comprehensive understanding of cancer metabolism and its impact on patient survival. This research explores an innovative way of analyzing cancer multi-omic data by integrating multimodal machine learning and metabolic modelling for identifying the key factors or biomarkers that can give insights into early diagnosis. 

Firstly, this research aimed at identifying the key factors (biomarkers) affecting the survival likelihood of breast cancer using an interpretable machine-learning model that specifies the key factors influencing model predictions. Secondly, a more accurate and reproducible method for predicting cancer survival outcomes was explored using a deep learning model for survival analysis. Thirdly, a methodology for risk stratification of breast cancer patients into low-risk and high-risk subgroups, based on the risk scores derived from a predictive model was examined to facilitate individualized or personalized care that is suitable for the patients. 

The research identified crucial biomarkers for prognosis affecting the survival likelihood of breast cancer using coefficients of the features from an interpretable predictive model achieving high performance scores. The multi-task attention learning algorithm for multi-omics data (MOMA) was used in a deep learning model. It focuses selectively on important features to predict survival outcomes with unparalleled accuracy. The study also stratified breast cancer patients into low-risk and high-risk subgroups based on the risk scores derived from a predictive model, enabling the development of personalized treatment plans for each patient. This research underscores the significance of integrating multiple data modalities for gaining a comprehensive understanding of cancer metabolism and patient survival analysis.
